#12092: Update M2M guide using new AzDO M2MTool (#6913)
dotnet/arcade: Documentation/Projects/M2MRenaming/Master-to-Main-renaming-guide.md

        4. Search for yourself in the identities search box
        5. Verify value in `Force push (rewrite history, delete branches and tags)` is `Allow` (can be through inheritance)
    - Make sure you see the `Set as default branch` dropdown menu item in branch management (verify with some random branch)

>     - If you don't have access to update policies, you need follow steps for [M2MTool](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool?path=%2FREADME.md&_a=preview) and fill out ticket a VSEng Service Ticket

Reviewer: This step doesn't apply for the `dnceng.visualstudio.com` but only for `devdiv` so it might be confusing as we don't have VSEng for this.

Reviewer 2: Is the M2M tool accessible to everyone? We should ask people to check if they have access to it in the prerequisites. Also, we should quickly describe where this tool comes from when we first mention this.

Author: updated and added comment about tool's origin above

        4. Search for yourself in the identities search box
        5. Verify value in `Force push (rewrite history, delete branches and tags)` is `Allow` (can be through inheritance)
    - Make sure you see the `Set as default branch` dropdown menu item in branch management (verify with some random branch)

>     - If you don't have access to update policies, you need ask .NET Core Engineering <dnceng@microsoft.com>. Be aware that steps described in [M2MTool documentation](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool?path=%2FREADME.md&_a=preview) are applicable for devdiv.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If you don't have access to update policies, you need to ask [.NET Core Engineering <dnceng@microsoft.com>](mailto://dnceng@microsoft.com). Beware, the steps described in [M2MTool documentation](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool?path=%2FREADME.md&_a=preview) are applicable for devdiv.
```

Reviewer: I don't like much this sentence "Beware, the steps described in are applicable for devdiv."

What is the person reading this supposed to do with this information? Only grow uneasy that things might break?

Also this sentence should go somewhere else, there's no mention of M2M tool in this list item

    > Note: Go to the [code-mirror build](https://dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_build?definitionId=16&_a=summary) and filter the pipeline runs by Tags (select your repo).
3. Go to `Branches`
4. Create a new branch called `main` off of the `master` branch
5. Mirror policies from branch `master` to branch `main` using [M2MTool](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool?path=%2FREADME.md&_a=preview)

> Example for dotnet/xharness (just update parameter URL with URL of your repository):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example for `dotnet/xharness`:
```

## 8. Change the default branch for AzDO pipelines
![AzDO mirrored](images/azdo-mirrored.png)

> ### 8.1. For [internal](https://dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal) projects, you can update pipelines using [M2MTool](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool).

Reviewer: I would change the 8.1 and 8.2:
The difference when you can use the tool or not is whether the pipeline is based on an AzDO or GitHub repository.
There can still be internal pipelines based on GitHub, so I would just rephrase it.

Author: updated

> First you need to prepare a configuration file for [M2MTool](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool). Example can be found in \M2MTool\ConfigFiles\configfile.csv.

Reviewer: Please include a full link to the file in the M2MTool repo

Author: I can't use exact link because they have it this way:
- Click on most recent build - Build Definition  https://dev.azure.com/devdiv/Engineering/_build?definitionId=13934
- Click on Published
- When you hover over the right hand side of the tool folder you will see a download down arrow - click on that
- Move folder content to wherever you want to store it.

I can probably use most recent version like https://dev.azure.com/devdiv/d9c65f94-67d0-4a2d-8fd0-4285996019c6/_apis/build/builds/4441242/artifacts?artifactName=M2MTool&api-version=6.0&%24format=zip, but then users will miss updates.

Reviewer: I meant this?
https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool?path=%2FConfigFiles%2Fconfigfile.csv

Author: oh right, I misunderstood, I thought that you spoke about how to download the tool, it's updated now

> First you need to prepare a configuration file for [M2MTool](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool). Example can be found in \M2MTool\ConfigFiles\configfile.csv.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to prepare a configuration file for [M2MTool](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool). Example can be found in \M2MTool\ConfigFiles\configfile.csv.
```

> Example of M2MTool configuration file for dotnet-xharness:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of M2MTool configuration file for `dotnet-xharness`:
```

```
Org,Project,Repo
dnceng,internal,dotnet-xharness
```

> Once you have configuration file, execute the M2MTool with command `pipeline` and your configuration file. Example for dotnet-xharness:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the configuration file, execute the M2MTool with command `pipeline` and supply the configuration file:
```

```
.\M2MTool.exe pipeline --config=configfile.csv
```

### 8.2. M2MTool tool doesn't handle [public](https://dev.azure.com/dnceng/public) projects against GitHub repositories.
- Do this for all pipelines that are based off a YAML in the GitHub repo that you are working with
- You can use [this script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dotnet/arcade/master/scripts/list-repo-pipelines.ps1) to list all pipelines associated with a given repo:
  > ```ps
  > .\list-repo-pipelines.ps1 -GitHubRepository "[GH REPO NAME]"
  > ```

> - Example for dotnet/xharness:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Example for `dotnet/xharness`:
```

  > ```ps
  > .\list-repo-pipelines.ps1 -GitHubRepository "dotnet/xharness"
  > ```

> To update pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update the pipeline:
```

## 8. Change the default branch for AzDO pipelines
![AzDO mirrored](images/azdo-mirrored.png)

> ### 1. Pipelines based on AzDO repository can be updated by M2MTool

Reviewer: You have `1.` here and nothing below

First, you need to prepare a configuration file for [M2MTool](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool?path=%2FREADME.md&_a=preview). Example can be found in \M2MTool\ConfigFiles\configfile.csv.

Example of M2MTool configuration file for `dotnet-xharness`:
```
Org,Project,Repo
dnceng,internal,dotnet-xharness
```
Once you have the configuration file, execute the M2MTool with command `pipeline` and supply the configuration file:
```
.\M2MTool.exe pipeline --config=configfile.csv
```

### Pipelines based on GitHub repository have to be updated manually

> - Do this for all pipelines that are based off a YAML in the GitHub repo that you are working with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do this for all pipelines that are based off a YAML in the GitHub repo that you are working with (these are usually in the public AzDO project)
```

> **Note:** this step only applies to repositories that deploy to cloud and have a required Component Governance setup due to SDL.
> Your repository might not be and that's ok.

> > Make sure that CG task on main branch has finished before starting this step.

Reviewer 2: When you start using any abbreviation (such as CG), make sure we explain this at the first occurrence of the term (e.g., " ... Component Governance (shortened to CG in the rest of this guide) ..."

> Tracking of main breanch is done automatically when a CG task on this branch finishes. Once main branch is tracked you should disable tracking of master branch by [M2MTool](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool) with command `component-governance-untrack-branch` and configuration prepared in [step 8](#8-change-the-default-branch-for-azdo-pipelines).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tracking of main branch is done automatically when a CG task on this branch finishes. Once main branch is tracked you should disable tracking of master branch by [M2MTool](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool) with command `component-governance-untrack-branch` and configuration prepared in [step 8](#8-change-the-default-branch-for-azdo-pipelines).
```

> Tracking of main breanch is done automatically when a CG task on this branch finishes. Once main branch is tracked you should disable tracking of master branch by [M2MTool](https://devdiv.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Engineering/_git/M2MTool) with command `component-governance-untrack-branch` and configuration prepared in [step 8](#8-change-the-default-branch-for-azdo-pipelines).

Reviewer: I don't think it is done automatically. It will still be tracking master and you won't be able to switch to main. You need to wait for a finished build so that you see the main branch in the options to start tracking it.

Author: You are right, it looks they has it wrong in M2MTool or it works differently in devdiv. I reverted it back as use of M2MTool doesn't have much sense in this case.
